1. Explain the core components of flume.

The core components of Flume are
Event:
An event is the basic unit of data flow that flows through the flume agent.
It flows from source-channel-sink.
It has the payload of byte array to be transported.

Source:
This is the component of agent.
It is a medium through which data enters Flume workflows.
A source in Flume produces events and delivers them to one or more channels.

Sink:
It transfers the data to the destination, (mostly hdfs).

Channel:
It is the medium between the source and the sink.
It buffers the events until they are forwarded to the sink.

Agent:
 A Flume agent is a (JVM) process that hosts the components through which events flow from an external source to the next destination (hop).
  Agents are configured to run a collection of particular sources and sinks.
A Flume agent can be started with the flume-ng command.

2. Can flume provide 100% reliability while transfering the data.

Yes, Apache Flume provides end to end reliability because of its transactional approach in data flow.
Transactional Approach:
When a message moves from one agent to another, two transactions are started, one on the agent that delivers the event and the other on the agent that receives the event. 
In order for the sending agent to commit it’s transaction, it must receive success indication from the receiving agent. The receiving agent only returns a success indication if it’s own transaction commits properly first. 
This guarantees 100% reliable delivery semantics between the hops that the flow makes.

3.Explain the consolidation in flume.

In Flume the flume source can collect data from from different data flow.
Also from different flume agent and consolidate it and transfer it through channel to the sink to the hdfs.

ex: src--channel---sink
                        *
    src--channel---sink --* src--channel--sink-----hdfs
                        *
    src--channel---sink      
    
4. Explain what is an event in flume.
    An event is a unit of data flow that flows through the flume agent.
    It flows from source-channel-sink.
    A source in Flume produces events and delivers
    them to the channel, which stores the events until they are forwarded to the sink. 
  

5. Explain what is an agent in flume.
  A Flume agent is a (JVM) process that hosts the components through which events flow from an external source to the next destination (hop).
  Agents are configured to run a collection of particular sources and sinks.
A Flume agent can be started with the flume-ng command.
